# Teal Economic Model Concept
# !!!Design Proposal!!!

### Introduction
This concept is a consequence of the development of [Economic Mechanics Proposal](economic_mechanics.md) in a brainstroming workgroup by Virgil, Michael and Nickolay. It explores the scaling up of the ideas to the broader economic systems.

**One liner: What would happen if we would extend the Ethereum chain with a function that allows generation of new ETH tokens in a specific address if there is a majority support by the community?**

## Concept

### Goal & purpose
The goal is to create such economic system which will be transparent, blockchain-based and **will encourage general-welfare efforts** - projects, that is bringing value to all token holder.

### Issuance model
Initial tokens got issued through a first PTO by the founding foundation.
New additional tokens got issued by voting of the existing tokenholders.

In other words, the analogue would be to have ICO's on the ETH chain create new ETH by popular vote, not by collecting pre-existing ETH and issuing new ICO-tokens. Basically, we add a function to the smart contract functionality, and change the laws of the economic system. This will have **profound** effects.

### Why?
If the project brings benefit for all tokenholders, it will be reasonable to all tokenholders to participate in funding this project. By issuing new tokens to fund the project, community deludes all tokenholders and effectively taxes everyone to fund general-welfare project.

### Why not doing separate funding campaign? Run an ICO
In case of ICO **new** tokens issued and **new** community created.

### Control
The ultimate control stays in the hands of the community through the system of voting and delegates.

### Who is eligible to submit a token issuance request?
Anyone. If the community decides, that the project can bring good thing to the community in general and can increase the value of the token itself, it will approve funding.

### Scam projects
If the community becomes big, it looses ability to effectively distinguish between good and unworthy funding proposals / projects. In this case community can setup an elected committee of `Community Welfare Guardians`, who will have to validate projects before they can submit their proposal for public voting. Also community members can delegate their voting rights to more qualified community representatives.

### Can funded projects generate revenue?
Yes, projects funded by a community can generate revenue and accumulate money. Generated money can be returned back to community by burning. Burning will reduce supply of tokens in circulation and will be effectively equal to paying back dividents to all token holders.

### Can funded projects generate revenue in the form of other currencies (other community tokens)?
Yes, in this case public project can/should use this 'foreign' tokens to buy from own community's tokens from the open market and then it should burn own community's tokens. It will be effectively equal to paying back dividends to all token holders, who funded the projet.

## Why existing models does not work?
### Fiat economy
In fiat economy central point in the community (CentralBank+Government) can issue tokens.

There is two forms of taxation:
* Direct taxation in forms of forcing specific subgroups of community to give out to central point specific amount of tokens.
* Indirect taxation by minting more tokens.

Direct taxation is visible and can be controlled by a community to a small degree by electing parliaments, senates, etc.

Indirect taxation cannot be controlled and audited by community in **any** way.

Distribution of funds, collected by direct taxation can be **indirectly** controlled by the community by electing parliments and senates and then by making laws(budgets) how government should spend money. In this model community cannot have **any** control over specific projects or over specific executives, who run specific projects.

Distribution of funds, generated by inflation (minting more money) cannot be controlled by a community in **any** way.

### Existing cryptocurrencies
Systems like Bitcoin and Ethereum brought in community management and full transparency. But in this projects new tokens are minted to 'miners' and miner's function are very limited to the community. They only secure the network to some degree and make sure it is keeping running. But they do not bring new added value to the community.

If you start a new project and fund it through ICO, securing funds from limited community members, you are essentially creating new community, which is not connected to existing one.

## WIP --- Why would this model not work? --- WIP
### Absence of insulation of risk

Consider ICO's on Ethereum. A high level view of an ICO is that people pour ETH in a new company, and the company issues new tokens that are tradeable on the ETH chain. Crucially, these are obviously not ETH tokens themselves. The hope is that these new "ICO" tokens appreciate in value faster than ETH (the main chain itself) does. For some of these ICO's, this has been the case, at least in the short run. This _might_ have sparked the bull run on ETH, and _might_ have explained the crash when expectations became too high (although that could be due to early investors cashing out). We argue that this is a negative phenomenon caused by fear of missing out, that may not have to be unavoidable. 

Even though the fear of missing out can lead to disproportionate amounts of money collected by ICO's, at least the risk is mostly contained, aside from the reputation damage to the main chain. If the new company fails, their tokens become worthless, and the fiat value of the ETH has not been put to use to succesfully create the promised product. ETH itself remains (priced-in expectations notwithstanding) equally valuable after the investment has been made, regardless of the succes of the ICO company. This is the **insulated risk**, a term we made up.

In the economical system where new companies issue _the very same token_ as the one living on the main chain, and they do not succeed in bringing extra value to the main chain, the value per token on the main chain effectively goes down. There is **no risk insulation**. Reputation damage is not insulated to the side chain. In fact, it probably touches the very economic system, i.e., the main chain. When an economic model suffers, effects are more pronounced and everyone is affected.

## Examples

### Example 1, CityCoin:
We have `LondonCoin`. It was launched through an ICO and people started using it for economic activity. Lets say Tower Bridge requires repairing.
** TO BE FINISHED **

### Example 2, ThreeFold:
Deploying new internet
** TO BE FINISHED ** 


## Poorly structured thoughts

### WIP --- Crystallized time --- WIP


Think of a token as a crystallized unit of time. A chair is a result of some amount of time and work spent. If I build a chair, and I insert it in the global economy, there is more crystallised time that can be traded in the world. Ergo, if the amount of tokens stay constant, each token represents slightly _more_ crystallised time. If we allow a new company to create tokens to represent the time they aim to spend on creating value, and this value does not get created, the amount of value per token goes _down_. If the amount of value they create per token that was created for them is exactly as much as the current value per token, there is no effect on the token value. If the value is bigger, the value per token goes up. Incidentally, one could argue that this is the same as a company issuing new shares because it (cl)aims to grow. The net share worth effect depends on the performance of the company.

This does not take into account running costs, upkeep, degradation of goods, services becoming obsoleted because of more efficient services, changing fashions, and so on.